All right, welcome back.
This is our last session of the day,
Hidden iOS 7 Development Gems.
I am still Paul Marcos.
And obviously we've been talking
all about iOS 7 all day today.
So just a ton of new technology,
and I'm not here to talk about any of it.
So at least not directly.
So what this session is about, right,
this has been a long day.
You've had a lot of
information to absorb.
And instead of talking about
the APIs or new technology,
I actually want to focus
this session on technique,
right, how you use these APIs and things
that you can do to improve,
you know,
what you do in your apps and how you
develop them and how you can get the
most out of our APIs in your apps.
[ Transcript missing ]
Now the last one actually
isn't inside of Xcode,
but it has to do with source control.
It's actually a Git command.
And if you haven't used Git,
it's a really great source
control management system that
I encourage you to look at.
It's very, very powerful.
And what I'm talking about here is
just my favorite command in Git,
which has to do with
searching a revision history.
So the scenario for this
is you've got your app,
you released 1.0, you did really well,
you released 1.1 and so on.
And you're going on and
you're chugging along,
making great progress
and implementing things.
And you get up to some point and
you release a new test build of
that latest version and you get
a bug report and somebody says,
oh, hey, something just broke.
It's like, all right,
I can deal with that.
The problem is what they
just report was not the thing
that you've been working on,
right?
It's something that you haven't
touched like forever since the
last major version of your app.
So what the heck broke?
Well, now your challenge becomes finding
where you introduce this regression.
And one approach to doing
that is just simply,
you know, the brute force linear search.
Like, okay, well,
maybe it was my last check-in.
Nope, maybe it was the one before that.
Nope, and on and on.
And ultimately,
you'd get way back to your 2.0 version,
which, you know, I'm showing eight
convenient little bullets.
Because they fit on a slide.
But in reality,
it's probably more like 800 commits,
right, especially if you have a team.
So there's a better way of
doing this that's using Git.
The idea would be, well,
this thing that broke,
this arbitrary thing that broke, well,
you know, jump back to a major revision.
Go back to your 2.0 version.
Was it broken there?
And I'll say no.
So that's the green check.
The bug doesn't exist in 2.0.
So now Git can help you find
in between where that broke.
And you do that by using
the git bisect command.
And what git bisect does is
it performs or it assists,
it facilitates in doing a binary
search through your revision history.
And we all know how great
binary searches are.
They cut times down in
orders of magnitude.
So this is the type of thing that
you probably don't need very often,
but when you do, it will save you a ton
of time and frustration.
So it works something like this.
So here's our scenario.
We have the bug on the right-hand side.
We know we tested 2.0.
It doesn't exist there.
[ Transcript missing ]
If we go to see why this is here,
we go to Xcode and in this example,
and you can absolutely
do this on your own,
select the label that's in that table
cell and then look at the attributes.
And what we see are there's a background
which is just set to the default color,
which by default is clear,
meaning it's going to have transparency.
And also the view is
not marked as opaque.
So the fix in this case,
and in a lot of cases that I see,
is really just as simple as changing
those two values to give the cell
a solid background color and tell
iOS that it's an opaque view.
And if you do that, in this case,
you go from running this,
you make those changes, you rerun,
and now the view looks like this.
And so you want to see
things turn green over time.
Now this is a really common case,
these non-opaque views.
Another very common case is the
view that's not marked as opaque.
Another very common case is
images that have alpha in them.
And the thing that gets people is you
look at your UI image view and it's
marked as opaque and you're like,
that's going to be a green view,
I know it.
And then you run your app and you
turn this on and it's bright red.
And you wonder,
why the heck is that happening?
Well, if you go look at the artwork file,
right, the JPEG or the PNG,
if the image file has alpha in it,
if it has an alpha channel,
we will respect that.
And even if there's a
lot of data in there,
we're going to respect that.
And even if there's no meaningful
data in it and it's not being
used in a meaningful way,
we will enable transparency in the view.
So that's a really easy fix
where you just go back to
your artwork person and say,
you know, I need this image as an
asset with no alpha channel.
And then you can magically have
these red images turn green.
And then the last place is if you're
doing custom drawing directly,
if you use the clear color,
that's going to enable
alpha in your views.
So most of these are
really low-hanging fruit.
And the challenge is identifying.
Identifying where the problem is.
And that's what the
simulator is good for.
And you can turn on color-blended layers.
I'll also add,
you can do this on a device as well.
For the color-blended layers,
you generally get the
same results on both.
But, you know,
sometimes you want to do it on a
device where you can actually see the
performance as well simultaneously.
So you enable that in instruments.
In the core animation
template in instruments,
there's a set of debug options
there which overlap with
the ones in the simulator.
The side benefit of doing it in the
simulator is you can ask a coworker,
hey, can I borrow your device?
You plug it into your computer.
You go turn on color-blended layers.
You disconnect it.
The red and green stays there.
It's a persistent switch.
Then you give it back to them.
Then you know nothing about it.
But, hey,
your device looks like it's broken.
Okay.
So that's color-blended layers.
I'm not condoning that whatsoever.
And those are the
simulator tips that I have.
Just, you know,
a couple things for identifying
problems in your app and adding.
And then you can add some polish to them.
So next up on the topic of performance,
I want to switch over to instruments.
And the first thing I want to talk about
there is profiling background fetch.
And this is actually kind of a
two-for-one tip where I talked about
background fetch a couple sessions ago.
And one of the important aspects
of background fetch is that
it's somewhat nondeterministic.
It's driven by iOS based on
a couple different things
and things that you can't,
as an app developer, necessarily drive.
So you can't directly control.
So that raises the question
of how do you actually,
like, test that?
How do you invoke background fetch?
Well, it turns out there's
two ways you can do it.
One is in Xcode.
And then the second one,
which I think is the
more interesting case,
is to use the time profile
trace in instruments.
And under the instrument menu,
there's simulate background
fetch down at the bottom.
And the reason I think
that's more interesting is,
well, one, it triggers a background fetch
when you're running your app.
So that's really helpful.
You can test it.
But it triggers it in the
context of time profiling.
So you can actually see the work that
is going on while you're fetching.
And because you have a
small amount of time,
you want to optimize that work that
you're doing and make sure that
you're only doing the necessary
work for doing a background fetch.
[ Transcript missing ]
And then it's at this point that
I went and selected the menu item
for simulate background fetch.
And the next flag that I see is now the
app has been woken up in the background,
but it hasn't come to the foreground.
So I'm running in the background.
And between here and the next flag,
which if I go click next again,
now the app is suspended once again.
So we transitioned into running,
but always in the background.
And between those two flags is where
the background fetch is being performed.
And that would be the area you want
to zoom in on to really identify what
work is being done and is it only the
minimum amount of work that I need.
So that's how you can
profile background fetch,
invoke it,
and actually see what work is being done.
And then the next step that
you commonly would want to use
is inspecting what it's doing.
And so that brings me to call tree.
And I want to show you how, well,
first what a call tree is.
And that's this area down here
in the bottom right-hand corner
of the time profile template.
And what it's showing you
is over a period of time,
instruments is stopping, you know,
very fast frequency,
stopping your app and capturing
the backtraces of all the threads.
And then we unify them,
we kind of lay them on top of each other,
and we get this tree representation
where you see main at the top
and then kind of the call tree.
of what your app is doing over time.
So now this is a different example than
the previous one that I was showing.
And this is actually an example
where I was working on the WWDC app,
which is one thing that the
evangelism team works on.
And I'd been working on the new
iPad version where we have a
new grid view that you can see
the schedule for the conference.
And in particular,
I was working on this one method that
I was concerned about the performance,
right?
In the back of my mind, I was like, hmm,
this code might actually be slow.
So I wanted to find out.
And I used the time
profiler to take this trace.
And down here at the bottom,
I can see this method that
I was concerned about,
this apply layout attributes.
And if I just looked
at this initial view,
I'd see, well, okay,
it was taking about 0.7 seconds,
or sorry,
0.7% of the time that I profiled.
And you think, well, okay,
that seems like a really small amount.
But I had a hunch that this
code was being called from
multiple different places,
actually more than a
hunch I knew that it was.
And what I wanted to know is,
what is the total amount of
time that this method is taking?
And that's what you can
do using call trees.
And you can do it by using these
view options on the left-hand side.
Now, this is what you get by default.
And I'm going to go through a series of
kind of checking and unchecking items
in here and explain what's happening
to the call tree along the way.
The first thing that I want to do is
I'm going to uncheck this separate by
thread checkbox because I want to know
the total amount of time regardless
of where it's being called from.
So I don't care about
what thread we're in.
So uncheck separate by thread.
And now you see the outline view.
This isn't a particularly
good example of it,
but the outline view is no longer
separating threads out at the
top level and everything is in
a single branch of the tree.
So the next thing I want to do is
I want to invert the call tree.
And this is where really the heavy
lifting of this operation comes in.
And what that will do is instead
of showing the call tree organized
by the caller of a method,
it will turn the tree upside down
and show the cumulative amount of
time regardless of who called it.
So if you think about,
depending how you think about
which direction a tree is,
it just turns it around and shows you
the number of times it's been called.
So if you think about how you think
about which direction a tree is,
it just turns it around and shows you
the number of times it's been called.
So if you think about how you think
about which direction a tree is,
it just turns it around and shows you
the number of times it's been called.
So if you think about how you think
about which direction a tree is,
it just turns it around and shows you
the number of times it's been called.
Now then you look at this and say, OK,
well, what bubbled up to the top here
is Objective-C message send.
That's the inner function that
does the Objective-C messaging.
And that's not really helpful,
because that's not my code.
That's not what I'm looking for.
So I kind of want to get rid
of all the system stuff here,
because I don't care about that.
It's almost noise to me at this
point in my hunt for finding how
much time this method is taking.
So next thing I'll check is
this hide system libraries,
which all that's going to
do is remove all the system
libraries out of the call tree,
and it reduces the call
tree down to just your code,
right?
Just the code that exists
in the application.
So now I get this.
So now I get this code where
I recognize all of this.
It's meaningful to me.
I can act on it.
And if I actually now look at
what bubbled up to the top,
it's actually that method
that I'm concerned about.
So now I look at it,
and we have apply layout attributes.
And when I compare this total amount
of cumulative time that method took
versus the first single instance of it,
I see it's by a factor of eight, right?
So now I'm looking at 6% of
the time spent in my app,
and that's a sizable number.
That's a number I can go and say.
All right,
what am I doing in that method,
and how can I make it faster?
So call trees are just a great way
to get a different view of your data.
[ Transcript missing ]
Here's an example of an
app that's been localized.
And if you just want to switch
from one localization to another,
it can be as simple as just having
some different schemes in your project.
And then you can easily switch
from one scheme to another,
which will switch you from
one language to another.
So from run to run of your app,
you can jump between languages,
and it makes it a really
lightweight process.
So let me show you how
you configure these.
You do so in Xcode Scheme Editor,
and you would probably pick just
your default scheme that you have.
And then you would duplicate it.
So down here in the
bottom left of this panel,
you hit Duplicate Scheme.
That'll give you a new scheme
with all the same configurations.
But then you would come in,
and you would add some arguments
that are passed on launch.
And there's two arguments
that you would want to set.
The first is this Apple Languages.
Which is an array,
but you would specify just
a single language code,
and that's the language
that the app will be run in.
And then the second one is Apple Locale.
And that actually, in the UI of settings,
that's actually going to
represent the region format.
So affecting things
like number formatting,
date formatting, stuff like that.
These are separate toggles that you have.
So when you set these,
now you can just go through and
duplicate the scheme numerous times.
And set it up in a way that
it's not going to be a problem.
So you can do that.
And set one for French,
or you can add Chinese, or Japanese,
and Russian, whatever languages that
you're currently targeting.
So it just makes it really,
really easy to get this pop-up
that you can jump back and forth.
So ease the development process
for doing localized apps.
So that's the last tip that
I had for the frameworks,
and actually is the last tip
that I have for this session.
So hopefully, you'll be able to use
it in your own apps.
Hopefully, did everybody learn at least
one thing in the session?
Yes?
Excellent.
So I think my job here is done.
And actually, our day is done.
So I just want to say thank you so
much for spending the day here with us.
Take care.